# Product Group Running Agenda & Notes

[![hackmd-github-sync-badge](https://hackmd.io/NX9nH53nTk6u03pz6Hd7tA/badge)](https://hackmd.io/NX9nH53nTk6u03pz6Hd7tA)


### January 13th, 2021 - NEW TIME 5pm Wednesdays (same time as biweekly)
* Intro of new members:
* * Organisational: Inform about new schedule, Hackmd and Github repo
* Ecosystem updates: DIF F2F 
    * Sign up here: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/dif-face-to-face-virtual-2-tickets-131061150429
    * https://www.researchgate.net/publication/348325716_Decentralized_SSI_Governance_the_missing_link_in_automating_business_decisions
* Events, conferences and updates: Evernym & IATA: https://youtu.be/5Sf_4fZbhlc
* NGI open call: https://www.ngi.eu/opencalls/#trublo-opencall
* Legal,regolatory and government project updates: 
* Asks:Creative ways to link VCs/Documents to each other (standardized or not) email margo@transmute.industries to discuss 
* **Presentation:** Update & summary of "consent in SSI" - by Adrian Doerk (ca 20 min.)
* Group discussion:

**Next session: Goals setting & Planning**
* Determine topics and their importance & urgency.
* Define aims and goals of the product manager call.
* More practical presentations - tangable UI & implementation challanges. 



### Synthetic Summary of 2020 Meetings (Adrian Doerk, 23/12/20): 
 
* **User experience** (cryptographic trust)
* **Wallets** - what is a wallet - enterprise wallet vs. End user wallet,  how will it look like in five years 
* Decentralised identity **adoption** 
* **Consent**: (Implied - informed - progressive; sharing policies/decision framework - with risk of sharing XYZ, Framing: actual vs. Relative privacy; responsibilization,) 
* **Open source**: product strategy, existing repositories (e.g. BC gov issuer kit) 
* **Legal frameworks** & Government topics: (eIDAS, DHS Wallet challenge, ETDA from Thailand, Korean Data standardization conference, EU digital governance act + My Data response) 
* **Personas** and their specific needs 
* **Onboarding**: challenges, What is working well, SSO,
* **Language barriers** & Localization/cultural context

### December 23th, 2020 - Recording

* Agenda items: 
* Ecosystem updates: 
    * https://ssi-ambassador.medium.com/the-trust-infrastructure-of-self-sovereign-identity-ecosystems-551f46ed9e2c
* Conferences/workshops 
    * DIF F2F Virtual #2. Please register (19th Jan 2021) https://www.eventbrite.com/e/dif-face-to-face-virtual-2-tickets-131061150429


*   **User experience** (cryptographic trust)
    *   **Language**
    *   **Personas** and their specific needs
    *   **Onboarding:** challenges, What is working well, SSO,
    *   **Consent:** (Implied - informed - progressiv; sharing policies/decision framework - with risk of sharing XYZ, Framing: actual vs. Relative privacy; responsibilization,)  \

*   **Other topics:**
    *   **Wallets** - what is a wallet - enterprise wallet vs. End user wallet,  how will it look like in five years 
    *   **adoption & use-cases** 
    *   **Open source:** product strategy, existing repositories (e.g. BC gov issuer kit) 
    *   **Legal** frameworks & **Government** topics: (eIDAS, DHS Wallet challenge, ETDA from Thailand, Korean Data standardization conference, EU digital governance act + My Data response) 

How to move forward and structure the topics? \
Idea: Determine importance & urgency of the topics! \
Mentimeter session to get feedback -> For Topic, structures etc. 

   

How to move forward and structure the topics? \
Idea: Determine importance & urgency of the topics!



### December 9th, 2020 - [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/4tBP-fBbBjonV90VF2VRv8JYpdWyVToquGcDA0aW-hLGc1Jg9XePQdoPgGV1G2_j.cmWdizvJdxoxBi2i)

Agenda Items:



*   New member intros (5 mins) 
*   Ecosystem updates (5 mins)  
    *   Working groups
        *   Daniel B. → Fuzzy Encryption Mnemonics  (ID and Discovery Group) 
            *   What should the secret inputs be? Internationalization, emojis, considerations for human memory...? 
            *   Need for configuration file(s) 
            *   Seeing feedback from product group, possible work item 
            *   Current spec: [https://github.com/decentralized-identity/fuzzy-encryption/blob/master/fuzzy-encryption-construction.pdf](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/fuzzy-encryption/blob/master/fuzzy-encryption-construction.pdf) 
    *   Conferences/workshops 
        *   Upcoming conferences:
            *   Internet Bar Organization - “Building a justice layer of the internet” 
                *   November 17th-19th 
                *   [https://www.techforjustice.org/ibo-summit](https://www.techforjustice.org/ibo-summit) 
            *   Thoughtful Biometrics Conference 
                *   Cross-sector, unconference style
                *   January 2021
                *   [https://thoughtfulbiometrics.org/](https://thoughtfulbiometrics.org/) 
            *   Korean data standardization conference (Kai & Heather) 
                *   [http://dltsf.or.kr/k/global_1th.asp](http://dltsf.or.kr/k/global_1th.asp) 
            *   DIF virtual F2F in tentatively set for mid-January 
                *   Product Mgrs group may choose to share something? UX demos and walkthroughs look good on YouTube...
    *   Legal/regulatory
        *   
    *   Other cool resources & finds 
        *   Mental models of Identity & SSI:  \
[https://ssi-ambassador.medium.com/the-mental-models-of-identity-enabled-by-ssi-d3e2d8d0f2b6](https://ssi-ambassador.medium.com/the-mental-models-of-identity-enabled-by-ssi-d3e2d8d0f2b6)
    *   Asks
        *    
*   Scheduling 
    *   Current meeting schedule: 
        *   December 23rd 
            *   A few folks can make it. 
        *   January 13th ← moving to weeks without DIF bi-weekly
        *   Every other week after that …  
*   Group discussion (Nader + Lucas)
    *   Link to slides: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fBSILpUCnGFAlabZ165755Z2XVDx7G1ims2wLYnpA2w/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fBSILpUCnGFAlabZ165755Z2XVDx7G1ims2wLYnpA2w/edit?usp=sharing)
*   Upcoming topics & presentations
    *   


### November 11th, 2020 - [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/OToItmb1U2yCJ9AKHL1xB4vyvwD10XLQPFUbik9gjDoKJ-873p6W5JqcTobzpvuW.yi0sbS4c3KHc6xHC)

Agenda Items:



*   New member intros (5 mins) 
*   Ecosystem updates (5 mins)  
    *   Working groups
        *   Starting CCG APAC calls 
        *   Go to DIF governance call friday if you want to talk about technical steering committee split  (8am PST) 
    *   Conferences/workshops 
        *   Upcoming conferences:
            *   Internet Bar Organization - “Building a justice layer of the internet” 
                *   November 17th-19th 
                *   [https://www.techforjustice.org/ibo-summit](https://www.techforjustice.org/ibo-summit) 
            *   Thoughtful Biometrics Conference 
                *   Cross-sector, unconference style
                *   January 2021
                *   [https://thoughtfulbiometrics.org/](https://thoughtfulbiometrics.org/) 
            *   Korean data standardization conference (Kai & Heather) 
                *   [http://dltsf.or.kr/k/global_1th.asp](http://dltsf.or.kr/k/global_1th.asp) 
            *   DIF virtual F2F in tentatively set for mid-January 
                *   Product Mgrs group may choose to share something? UX demos and walkthroughs look good on YouTube...
    *   Legal/regulatory
        *   EU folks - a draft of the Digital Governance Act leaked and MyData wrote a cool [open letter](https://mydata.org/2020/11/06/towards-interconnected-and-human-centric-data-intermediaries/) in response. Huge consequences for consent and product design :D 
    *   Other cool resources & finds 
        *   
    *   Asks
        *    
*   Scheduling 
    *   Current meeting schedule: 
        *   November 25 (Thanksgiving in US, many off) - will cancel
        *   December 9th
        *   December 23rd 
            *   A few folks can make it. 
        *   January 6th 
*   Consent Part 2 (Jonny Howle gave last week) - continued discussion
    *   Where does “**responsibilization**” come into play with decentralized tech? 
        *   Transfer of responsibility onto new participant in system
        *   Users are responsible for their privacy/ decisions 
        *   DIDs/VCs to reduce corporate liability - “blame the user!” :) 
        *   “Irresponsible responsibilization” when still not great ways for everyday humans to store/[recover](https://medium.com/decentralized-identity/dif-id-wg-starting-work-on-cryptographic-secret-recovery-204117b6a2ab) keys 
        *   Key issues 
            *   Privacy of keys (management/security) 
            *   Disclosure of credentials (consent/ privacy… aware of what sharing) 
    *   Where are the common security vs. convenience trade-offs in our space?
        *   How can **contextual integrity** help? 
            *   How can control/consent be managed progressively over time?
                *   Temporary sharing, conditional revocation
                *   Technical solutions to anchor reference to verifiable presentations, use similar method of checking against revocation list
                *   Progresive consent is complemented by selective disclosure of claims/credentials as a feature 
            *   Building up a consent **decision framework** over time, makes it easier to use a product over time … **preferences** over time, set a **policy **(related to data model(s)) 
                *   Design term for product getting easier to use over time 
                *   Low risk
                    *   Sharing already public info (a la Open Badges) 
                *   Mid Risk
                    *   No statement of purpose provided by requester of info (+ contextual integrity requirements) 
                *   High risk
                    *   Sharing my private key
                    *   Sharing my DNA
                    *   Sharing with an insecure site / unknown party 
                *   Progressive consent is not “point and click”
                    *   May share 5 pillars of contextual integrity
                    *   Standard, defined data model 
                    *   Small scope of consent decision 
                    *   “Re-negotiation” 
    *   How can relative understanding of **actual privacy** be incorporated into consent actions? (relative vs. objective framing) 
        *   Example: does this grow or shrink my privacy footprint, and what does that mean for me? 
    *   How can sharing/consenting actions vary across the spectrum depending on who you are sharing with
    *   What are user experience paths related to improved consent and control over time? (maybe Finema example?) 
*   Related consent work:
    *   MyData Operators 
    *   Data Privacy Vocab: [https://dpvcg.github.io/dpv/](https://dpvcg.github.io/dpv/)
    *   Kantara - Consent Receipts 
    *   TOIP Notice and Consent Task Force
    *   “Data of everyday life” 
    *   OAuth encoded consent in token
    *   [https://docs.consenteye.com/user-guide/consent-receipt](https://docs.consenteye.com/user-guide/consent-receipt) 
    *   [https://medium.com/decentralized-identity/dif-id-wg-starting-work-on-cryptographic-secret-recovery-204117b6a2ab](https://medium.com/decentralized-identity/dif-id-wg-starting-work-on-cryptographic-secret-recovery-204117b6a2ab) 
    *   [JLINC ](https://www.jlinc.com/)&lt;- procol for consent receipts and revocation of permissions
*   Topics for upcoming sessions:
    *   Accessibility and language for end users of this technology  (Lucas & Nader to co-facilitate on December 9th)
        *   Words and flows for those not deeply involved in this space 
        *   Relationship to consent, full understanding of actions 
            *   Talk about:
                *   Data model(s) for consent policies 
                *   UI &lt;> Data Model relationship
                *   Defaults/policies 
                    *   Personal assistant privacy protector
                *   Keep it human! 
    *   Adrian Doerk (couldn’t make it today) share this list of ideas...
        *   - Credential images
        *   - Proof requests
        *      - Consent (Who asks, why asks, right to ask)
        *      - Type of information requested and their illustration (e.g. self-attested, verified)
        *      - Informed user consent (when and how does the user requires additional information)
        *   - Execution of GDPR rights (right to be forgotten, right of information stored etc.)
        *   - Syntax of attributes (e.g. DD.MM.YYYY)


### October 28th, 2020 - [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/CO6bmYLiEQaWQ6cmRJsbGW59wd0KmmkZ8YA_XN7iPL6xRZAUflj-_wsuc6TfE7H4.gOZY3mT6_ocbN8zb)

Agenda Items:



*   New member intros (5 mins) 
*   Ecosystem updates (5 mins)  
    *   Working groups
        *   Starting CCG APAC calls 
    *   Conferences/workshops 
        *   IIW happened 
        *   Upcoming conferences:
            *   Internet Barr Organization - “Building a justice layer of the internet” 
                *   November 17th-19th 
                *   [https://www.techforjustice.org/ibo-summit](https://www.techforjustice.org/ibo-summit) 
            *   Thoughtful Biometrics Conference 
                *   Cross-sector, unconference style
                *   January 2021
                *   [https://thoughtfulbiometrics.org/](https://thoughtfulbiometrics.org/) 
            *   Korean data standardization conference (Kai & Heather) 
                *   [http://dltsf.or.kr/k/global_1th.asp](http://dltsf.or.kr/k/global_1th.asp) 
    *   Legal/regulatory
        *   
    *   Other cool resources & finds 
        *   
    *   Asks
        *    
*   Consent Presentation (Jonny Howle) 
    *   (Watch this recording if you missed it! Great presentation) 
        *   Privacy Paradox
        *   Contextual Integrity
        *   Hypothetical vs. Actual Scenarios, Relative vs. Objective costs  
            *   Power of framing actual privacy relative to past experiences or like groups
        *   Implied → Informed → **Progressive Consent**
    *   Discussion 
        *   Trust Agents (algorithmic consent support bot) 
            *   Deeper question: “How do we allow users to build preferences.” 
        *   What “head space” am I in when I make privacy decisions? 
        *   Cognitive dissonance 
        *   Privacy is misleading… much better to talk about control and consent
            *   Selective disclosure, starting from most restrictive settings and reduce restrictions from there. (similar to principle of least privilege :) ) 
        *   Users creating bumpers for themselves to not accidentally do something that is not in their best interest
        *   Balancing friction with small actions in the UX for selective disclosure
*   Next session(s)...
    *   Questions:  (we will jump back in here next session) 
        *   Where does “responsibilization” come into play with decentralized tech? 
        *   Where are the common security vs. convenience trade-offs in our space?
            *   How can contextual integrity help? 
            *   How can control/consent be managed progressively over time? 
        *   How can relative understanding of actual privacy be incorporated into consent actions? 
        *   How can sharing/consenting actions vary across the spectrum depending on who you are sharing with
        *   What are user experience paths related to improved consent and control over time? (maybe Finema example?) 
    *   Maybe naturally goes next?...
        *   Accessibility and language for end users of this technology  (Lucas)
            *   Words and flows for those not deeply involved in this space 
            *   Relationship to consent, full understanding of actions 


### October 14th, 2020 - [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/QMk6dedH5ibAFQgWzidkNUGZbeQgZr19XnVe9fWLxIW3HI2QhUopzpfhO6-a8Zaa.nrTCxkXr0CV7uulr)

Agenda Items:



*   New member intros (5 mins) 
*   Ecosystem updates (5 mins)  
    *   Working groups
        *   
    *   Conferences/workshops 
        *   IIW is coming again…Oct 20-22nd ([info](https://internetidentityworkshop.com/)) 
            *   Wayne: “Rebase” session 
                *   https://keybase.io/by_caballero ^ example of keybase [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kJhRE0CQ8BI2cOihdRE9EH-4atgwFJTwyXlB9LcebhE/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kJhRE0CQ8BI2cOihdRE9EH-4atgwFJTwyXlB9LcebhE/edit)
            *   Margo: Product supply chain
            *   Finema (Catherine)  - Multiple use cases from Thailand across industries, calling for interoperability. VC Standard guideline for ETDA (Electronic Transactions Development Agency), Hybrid CA/DID Model: a leap towards SSI Adoption. 
            *   KERI usecase/requirements gathering spitball session (unconfirmed)
    *   Legal/regulatory
        *   
    *   Other cool resources & funds 
        *   
    *   Asks
        *    
*   IIW presentations and topics (see above) 
*   Next topics for product meetings 
    *   Privacy and Consent at the UX and UI level  (Jonny) ← plan for the next session
        *   (Johnny may show sneak peek of beta product, or just mention) 
        *   Mick Lockwood (sp?) possible presenter to group 
        *   Possibly two meetings 
        *   Wayne: Offered to invite CCG as well 
    *   Wallet Interfaces 
        *   Different modalities: Mobile, Browser, etc. 
        *   Well known interactions with each type 
        *   When should they be used, how interchangeable, how much context given to the user, etc. 
    *   Accessibility and language for end users of this technology  (Lucas)
        *   Words and flows for those not deeply involved in this space 
        *   Relationship to consent, full understanding of actions 
    *   Key management and recovery (Jonny)
        *   What is “best in class” today
    *   What does it mean to be “production ready” with emergent technology (Margo)
        *   Wayne: Satisfy expectations while mitigating risks 
    *   To what extent should credentials be visual? (Lucas) 
        *   Mapping old and new expectations (design patterns) 
    *   “Progressive Decentralization” for the end user (Jonny, Jacob +1)
        *   Mapping out the steps along the way…
            *   Example: Managed (maybe child) to self-held keys etc. 
        *   Responsibilities, protections, of key management 
*   Product meeting cadence & facilitation 
    *   Bi-weekly still good
*   Upcoming possible presentations:
    *   Catherine checking on work with Thai government
    *   Jonny wallet 
    *   Margo issuance stepper
*   Design meetup: [https://www.meetup.com/TuesdayDesign/](https://www.meetup.com/TuesdayDesign/) 

Notes:



*   Starting DIF Africa, launching after IIW (Finema) 


### Sept 30th, 2020 - [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/jlQ4BMlFUFszO3lFrz_1uFwuSsKr2YE95x9p1594NJt8a6IiKM7Qwr0SkoJGrF0x.PvzCs88NG2SP5aBb)

Agenda Items:



*   New member intros (5 mins) 
*   Ecosystem updates (5 mins)  
    *   Working groups
        *   
    *   Conferences/workshops 
        *   IIW is coming again…Oct 20-22nd ([info](https://internetidentityworkshop.com/)) 
    *   Legal/regulatory
        *   
    *   Other cool resources & funds 
        *   
    *   Asks (take a penny, leave a penny) 
        *    
*   Wallet Competition Q&A  (~30 mins) 
    *   Related to: [https://www.dhs.gov/science-and-technology/prize-competitions](https://www.dhs.gov/science-and-technology/prize-competitions)
*   Next topics for product meetings 
    *   Continue onboard flows or mix in other discussions? 


### September 16th, 2020  - [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/9MRimaxsncfB9NK60TJpjUdzcDTPhebISmLADaJ0fIcbRrxRw_6ipHhgfwpEMDXb.qDrfoqrug8nDZAkz)

Agenda Items:



*   New member intros (5 mins) 
*   Ecosystem updates (5 mins)  
    *   Working groups
        *   
    *   Conferences/workshops 
        *   IIW is coming again…Oct 20-22nd ([info](https://internetidentityworkshop.com/)) 
    *   Legal/regulatory
        *   
    *   Other cool resources & funds 
        *   [https://www.dhs.gov/science-and-technology/prize-competitions](https://www.dhs.gov/science-and-technology/prize-competitions)
        *   [https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/2020/09/10/whats-in-a-wallet-the-recap/](https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/2020/09/10/whats-in-a-wallet-the-recap/)
        *   Tykn use-case: https://twitter.com/Tykn_tech/status/1305904128745504769
    *   Asks (take a penny, leave a penny) 
        *    
*   Onboarding discussion continued:
    *   **What are some of the common characteristics and flows of good onboarding experiences today?** (existing design patterns, not SSI-specific)
        *   What is working well?
            *   Don’t overwhelm with questions/ filling out info at the beginning … instead start taking actions 
            *   Can just use it without having to learn it! (self-explanatory) 
            *   SSO elephant in room! 
                *   Rapidly becoming the norm to “Sign in with (Google/Facebook/etc.)” = “Math of Convenience” 
            *   When install app, verify secondary info (phone, email, DL, etc.)
                *   Treating onboarding as opportunity to create value 
            *   In-app integrations to other applications “magic” 
            *   No prior knowledge required
                *   Make as simple as possible  **COME BACK HERE**
            *   For the privacy nerds :) 
                *   Email receipt of actions in your account
                    *   Example: Github sends “freak out if this isn’t you” email
                *   2FA security factors, pros and cons  
                *   EU law allows to access information from a third party system, but have to put in bank sign in details 
        *   **Where are the common pain points? **
            *   Need to have minimum technical understanding to get through
                *   Test: “Can I give it to a person with less technical understanding and will they be successful?” 
            *   System impersonation 
            *   Single use codes, how make sure data is synced across devices and secured? Delegate to third party system and accept risks.
            *   Only option is to use single sign on instead of disconnected account (+1) 
            *   Different preferences for security vs. usability
            *   SSO provides ease of not having to manage multiple passwordsBalancing security vs. number of clicks 
            *   Examples of showing security in the UI
                *   Visible security twitter check vs. actual verification
    *   What is different about onboarding when decentralized technology is involved? (DID/ VC/ etc. -- B2C or B2B) 
    *   Similarities / differences to existing flows
        *   Conceptual difference in approach, much more work up front 
        *   Onboarding a wallet
        *   Onboarding credentials
        *   Connecting to an existing identity 
    *   Example flow 1:
        *   Create wallet
        *   Create self-issued assertions (VCs)
            *   Ability to do things with those credentials right away 
        *   Jump… bringing in third party trusted credentials 
    *   Example flow 2 (more b2b + government)
        *   Start with basic education about SSI, start with government appreciation
            *   Understand what VCs and other countries are implementing
            *   (Translation of w3c to Thai language) 
        *   Provide wallets to businesses first 
    *   Example flow 3: (b2b working with issuers)
        *   Issuer wants to provide credential
        *   A business has to quickly get a wallet to receive the credential, and present it to others in the future 
    *   Example flow 4: 
        *   Go where users are to 
        *   start… start using locked-down enterprise grade application 
        *   Other examples of workflows: Torus and Fortmatic (now Magic)
        *   Starting with more managed experiences, then move towards more self-managed 
        *   Why would these enterprises let your data go?
            *   Apple example: we won’t farm your data… but we will capture you inside our systems 
            *   Privacy regulations (GDPA, CCPA, + Brazil) 
                *   What is less expensive? The fine, or the compliance implementation? 
    *   Example flow 5:
        *   Melbourne wallets paper, have for a regional target audience 
    *   Notes:
        *   How do you go from someone who doesn’t have a wallet to someone who does?
            *   Note: “their is a “competing project” launching next week claiming it has figured out on boarding to give everyone a decentralized ID in their centralized network [http://www.didalliance.org](http://www.didalliance.org)” 
        *   Kaliya proposed idea: “maybe the product managers could collaborate on a “common on-boarding flow” for people going from no wallet to having a wallet with a credential.” 
    *   New opportunities? (discuss sample flows) 
    *   New pain points? (relate back to above personas) 
    *   Questions raised, pros and cons of different approaches
*   Example 6: A wallet for Melbournian - a regional target audience:  \
[https://www.swinburne.edu.au/media/swinburneeduau/research-institutes/smart-cities/200820-Digital-Wallet-Interview-findings-report.pdf](https://www.swinburne.edu.au/media/swinburneeduau/research-institutes/smart-cities/200820-Digital-Wallet-Interview-findings-report.pdf)
*   Next meeting… lets go specifically into best practices around the following two workflows:
    *   Consumer-oriented flow
        *   Create Wallet → Create self-certified credential → Receive third party credential
    *   Business-oriented flow
        *   Issuer creates credential → Business goes to claim → Creates wallets → Receives Credential
    *   (Connect to CCG/ competition efforts) 

Other points:



*   How big is the delta between what experts understand as the risks and what end users understand 


### September 2nd, 2020 - [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/EY_RhsPkkZdw6M0W1SMI1gOaZcn2S7x0nTD2wAlVDviOSSC3dCaN05V-jq_1bG-Q.8DW6hTQVqQRFq8X0)

Call in details:

[https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81023290545?pwd=M3VpSWRsMXZYUk4yN1R5NXM3Qm8xQT09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81023290545?pwd=M3VpSWRsMXZYUk4yN1R5NXM3Qm8xQT09)

Meeting ID: 810 2329 0545

Passcode: 323392

Product group link: [https://dif.groups.io/g/id-productmanagers](https://dif.groups.io/g/id-productmanagers)

Agenda Items:



*   New member intros (5 mins) 
*   Ecosystem updates (5 mins)  
    *   Working groups
        *   New FinTech Group forming:
            *    https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSelX8hZC56ss7YQ9pJqsB0eMbcU4F1bSP4eBzvKyPzMb5-OEQ/viewform?usp=sf_link
    *   Conferences/workshops 
        *   IIW is coming again…Oct 20-22nd ([info](https://internetidentityworkshop.com/)) 
            *   Early bird registration ends next week
    *   Legal/regulatory
        *   [ eIDAS open consultation](https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/eidas-open-public-consultation) (INATBA and Validated-ID are both preparing collective/open-letter-style responses)
    *   Other cool resources 
        *   
    *   Asks (take a penny, leave a penny) 
        *    
*   Onboarding discussion (50 mins) 
    *   Defining personas

Differentiation between B2C (Student using the wallet) and B2B (e.g. University Staff - “Registrar” - using the software to offer services, works at the university, has access to student data). \
 \
Define: \
Name, Description, needs, problems, photo, preferences, 

**Persona 1:** \
Name: 		Luisa \
Description:	Schwedisch, 14 years old, goes to 8 grade, speaks english,  \
Needs: 	Use online services, connect to friends, access school/learning materials \
Problems: 	has too many passwords, doesn’t know who to trust on the internet.  \
preferences: 	Dancing, Doing videos, is worried about exposing too much about herself.  

**Persona 2:  ** \
Name: Paul  \
Description:  Paul is a truck driver picking up a load of car parts from the Port of Houston. (Yes, I know this is sort of B2B :) ) 

Needs:  He needs to be able to present his Commercial Drivers License to enter the port and pick up the materials. He also needs to be able to scan and digitally sign for custody of the materials.  \
Problems: Paul needs to be able to do everything on his smart phone. Sometimes he doesn’t have internet/ cellular signal at the Port.  \
Preferences: Paul doesn’t want to sign up for another darn account. He doesn’t want to download an app unless he uses it regularly and it makes his job easier. 

**Persona 3:** \
Name: Jane \
Description: 20, landed immigrant to a new country \
needs: to receive her new government-issued documents, and keep them up-to-date (e.g.: driver’s license, passport renewal). She also needs to be able to produce those documents when completing transactions: new bank account, rental agreement, etc. \
problems: language barriers, lack of time to work through bureaucracy (busy studying and working), limited tech budget (not the latest phone/computer) and knowledge. \
preferences: 

**Persona 4:** \
Name: Alexandra \
Description: Alumni, 25, she does not live anymore in the city where the university is located. \
needs: Wants to get her Diploma to get a job \
problems: She lives +2h from the University \
preferences: Loves chocolate

**Persona 5:** \
Name: Simon \
Description: Is an exchange student from Stanford University \
Needs: To get his course descriptions so that he can transfer some of the credits  \
problems: He needs to be physically on ground at Stanford so as to contact each Course Department  \
preferences: To be emailed over 

**Persona 6:** \
Name: Lucy \
Description: She is a first-year international student.  \
Needs: relies on a mobile app to navigate on/off campus  \
problems: not sure if regular path searching day after day, will release too much personal information (privacy related) \
preferences: pre-set a home location.

**Persona 7:**

Name: 65 year old 

Description: Lawyer in Canada 

Needs

Preferences: Less familiar with novel technologies 

**Other personas**

-Person with challenges with eyesight

-Limited access to internet-enabled devices and/or internet connection

-Language 

-Fearful to use technology due to surveillance, loss of privacy

-Someone who cannot read or write 

**Mutual:** \
 \
**Problems:	**Determining trust, Physical contact required, financial resources, Internet access, Capabilities (eyesight, literacy etc.) losing control of data/Information, \
**Needs:	**Access to information, services and documents, proving legitimacy, verification of contacts, user friendly  \


**Other Important Complexity**



*   Risking loss if delete app, understanding consequences 
*   Having to pick a ledger/ site to use a credential
*   Kaliya: 
    *   “If a user ever has to see a DID, we failed” 
    *   “From a human perspective, is what we are building interoperable?”
        *   Car dash metaphor - we can drive different cars!
        *   How do we make the car dash look the same? -> e.g. common for symbols 
    *   **What are some of the common characteristics and flows of good onboarding experiences today?** (existing design patterns, not SSI-specific)
        *   What is working well?
            *   Don’t overwhelm with questions/ filling out info at the beginning … instead start taking actions 
            *   Can just use it without having to learn it! (self-explanatory) 
            *   SSO elephant in room! 
                *   Rapidly becoming the norm to “Sign in with (Google/Facebook/etc.)” = “Math of Convenience” 
            *   When install app, verify secondary info (phone, email, DL, etc.)
                *   Treating onboarding as opportunity to create value 
            *   In-app integrations to other applications “magic” 
            *   No prior knowledge required
                *   Make as simple as possible  **COME BACK HERE**
            *   For the privacy nerds :) 
                *   Email receipt of actions in your account
                    *   Example: Github sends “freak out if this isn’t you” email
                *   
        *   **Where are the common pain points? **
            *   Need to have minimum technical understanding to get through
                *   Test: “Can I give it to a person with less technical understanding and will they be successful?” 
    *   What is different about onboarding when decentralized technology is involved? (DID/ VC/ etc. -- B2C or B2B) 
    *   Notes:
        *   How do you go from someone who doesn’t have a wallet to someone who does?
            *   Note: “their is a “competing project” launching next week claiming it has figured out on boarding to give everyone a decentralized ID in their centralized network [http://www.didalliance.org](http://www.didalliance.org)” 
    *   New opportunities? (discuss sample flows) 
    *   New pain points? (relate back to above personas) 
    *   Questions raised, pros and cons of different approaches


### August 19th, 2020 - No Recording?

Call in details:

[https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81023290545?pwd=M3VpSWRsMXZYUk4yN1R5NXM3Qm8xQT09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81023290545?pwd=M3VpSWRsMXZYUk4yN1R5NXM3Qm8xQT09)

Meeting ID: 810 2329 0545

Passcode: 323392  

Product group link: [https://dif.groups.io/g/id-productmanagers](https://dif.groups.io/g/id-productmanagers)

Agenda Items:



*   New member intros (5 mins) 
*   Ecosystem updates (10 mins) 
    *   Working groups
        *   Interoperability WG, open to all, calls at 9am ET Weds

            Data Portability: [https://trinsic.id/ssi-digital-wallet-portability/](https://trinsic.id/ssi-digital-wallet-portability/) &lt;- thanks for posting this!

    *   Conferences/workshops
        *   IIW is coming again…Oct 20-22nd ([info](https://internetidentityworkshop.com/)) 
        *   Interop hackathon (Aries) [https://wiki.hyperledger.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=36734079](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=36734079)
    *   Legal/regulatory
        *    
    *   Other cool resources 
        *   Indicio.Tech (Maya briefly sharing) 
            *   [IndicioTestNet](https://indicio.tech/indicio-testnet/), [Node Operator](https://indicio.tech/node-operator-program/) Maya’s email: maya@indicio.tech
        *   5 mental models of identity: [https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rwot7-toronto/blob/master/final-documents/mental-models.md](https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rwot7-toronto/blob/master/final-documents/mental-models.md)

	



    *   Asks (take a penny, leave a penny) 
        *   
*   Continue Wallet Discussion ([deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1aT4GixFtSWbqJWkPZd74pwWtW0svRZBFFteQqyEv1uA/edit)) (40 mins) 
    *   Menti.com  97 07 51 1
    *   Staff training: [https://medium.com/decentralized-identity/where-to-begin-b2a55b898b3](https://medium.com/decentralized-identity/where-to-begin-b2a55b898b3)
    *   Chat notes:
        *   Nader: “I’d like to see this group defining common usage patterns for UX, how to deploy, how to onboard, exploring different business models and partnerships instead of trying to tackle product architecture or interop” (+3)
        *   Siva: how to integrate with existing on boarding experiences?
        *   Michael: “We already have a shared UX in many SSI wallets, especially the Aries ones. We haven’t created any documentation from this yet though” 
*   Product group feedback (5 mins) 
    *   Bring updates to next DIF meeting (kailya)
    *   Moving away from architecture, interop project and think more about deployment etc. -- week to week basis problems 
    *   Adrian, Catherine volunteering to help with organizing the meetings 
    *   Trying out biweekly meetings for the next few meetings - see how it goes! 


### July 22nd 9 am PST/6pm CET - No Recording?

Agenda Items:



*   New member intros (5 mins) 
*   Ecosystem updates (10 mins) 
    *   Working groups
        *   Interoperability WG, open to all, calls at 9am ET Weds
            *   [Notion page](https://www.notion.so/dif/Interoperability-WG-a42995c37e2a4511a10aea96cdbccc38 )
    *   Conferences/workshops
        *   Identiverse
        *   Others? 
    *   Legal/regulatory
        *   [NIST Digital Identity guidelines](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-63/4/draft) - Review period until August 10
            *   Open questions about relationship to emergent / established crypto
    *   Other cool resources? 
    *   Asks
        *   Anyone have information about VC/DID to digital signature (EIDAS) published in the last few months? 

            Last thing published: [https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/collection/ssi-eidas-bridge](https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/collection/ssi-eidas-bridge) &lt;--thanks!

*   Project sharing/ demos (Two 5-minute slots, share what you are working on/thinking about, discuss reactions and questions) 
    *   Slot 1: Emiliano Sune, BC Gov
        *   BC Gov Issuer Kit: [https://github.com/bcgov/issuer-kit](https://github.com/bcgov/issuer-kit)
        *   BC Gov Visual Verifier: [https://github.com/bcgov/ vc-visual-verifier](https://github.com/bcgov/vc-visual-verifier) 
*   Topic discussion (25 mins) 

|<strong>Group</strong>|Participants|Notes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1|<ul><li>Margo Johnson</li><li>Jonny Howle</li><li>David Kelts</li></ul>|<ul><li>Simple audit past experiences</li><li>Presentation requests from past</li><li>Bringing physical wallet experience online… do we envision convergence into single experience including payment + identity</li><li>Multiple devices, shared view (multi-modal)</li><li>Take cognitive load off consumers in making more complex consent/permissions decisions (solve for consent fatigue) by creating a more accepted list over time… built a robust set of permissions</li><li>look at physical wallet “I don’t want to have a wallet of stuff” - physical things can go away and become a request</li><li>rapid rewards selective disclosure request via QR codes (Colorado touchless QR codes in Covid times)</li></ul>| 
|2|<ul><li>Michael Boyd (Trinsic)</li><li>Emiliano Sune (BC Gov)</li><li>Catherine (Finema)</li></ul>|<ul><li>First we need to have cross ledger support?</li><li>It’s hard to figure out which credential belongs to which ledger… ledger mismatches are hard to figure out. Some companies might have an internal ledger for their internal stuff…</li><li>We need to be able to use credentials with any platform. We need just one wallet for each individual. Need to have groupings of credentials within the wallet</li><li>What do enterprise wallets look like? How do they apply in this context?</li></ul>|
|<strong>3</strong>|<ul><li>Adrian Doerk (lissi)</li><li>Balazs Nemethi</li><li>Xavier (Validated ID)</li></ul>|<ul><li><strong>5 years from now:</strong></li><li>Mostly smartphones, but also augmented by other devices (glasses, Rings, Watches etc.)</li><li>Decentralized login will be another option to social login -> SSI wallets probably won’t be able to enable “all” use-cases.</li><li>What is our USP against Password managers - how do we communicate that to the end-user? </li></ul>|


*   [The Future of Wallets](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1aT4GixFtSWbqJWkPZd74pwWtW0svRZBFFteQqyEv1uA/edit#slide=id.p) 
    *   Breakout Questions (15 mins)
        *   Gather in groups of 3 to 4 to discuss
    *   Group Discussion (10 mins)
        *   Share what you learned from the discussion
*   Brainstorm future topics 

*Wallet examples from most recent CCG call:



*   [What is a wallet? ](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vB50Ta7H86_PopLaDE_yhJlCLhA9TiO2zQUutKiFmTQ/edit#slide=id.g752184a474_0_4)(Kaliya Young, Identity Woman) 
*   [Universal Wallet](https://transmute-industries.github.io/universal-wallet/) (Orie Steel, Transmute) 
*   [What goes in a wallet? ](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ZoD9njc0USS6Qr3O7WXmd-3Nmxmz0pVyBFEjkM4p9C4/edit#slide=id.g8d7196b025_0_2)(Daniel Hardman) 
*   [The State of Digital Wallets](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1shW4GzjG0HE2uxLCcYdSkaG-nCRBVZrwRFpa8Gs709U/edit#slide=id.p) (Darrell O’Donnell, Continuum Loop) 
*   [Jolocom Wallet](https://jolocom.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/Jolocom-WhatisinaWallet-CCG-W3C.pdf)
*   [Meeco](https://www.meeco.me/meeco-for-everyone)

Meeting notes:


### June 10th  9 am PST/6pm CET - No Recording?

Agenda Items:



*   Intro new group members, round robin 
*   Ecosystem updates 
    *   DIF working groups, CCG, other new projects, etc. 
        *   [DIF F2F](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/dif-face-to-face-virtual-tickets-106632396368) June 16th
            *   Slot 1: Balazs DIF F2F what to expect 
    *   Internet Identity Workshop reflections 
        *   [Full notes here ](https://iiw.idcommons.net/IIW_30_Session_Notes)
        *   Any session to go back and review notes on? 
            *   “Is consent broken? If yes, what can we do?” ([notes](https://iiw.idcommons.net/Is_consent_broken%3F_If_yes,_what_can_we_do%3F)) 
            *   “Open Source Product Strategy” ([notes](https://iiw.idcommons.net/Open_Source_Product_Strategy)) 
            *   “Verifiable Credentials for Global Supply Chains” ([notes](https://iiw.idcommons.net/Verifiable_Credentials_for_Global_Supply_Chains)) 
            *   Mattr ZKP [talk](https://iiw.idcommons.net/ZKPs_for_JSON-LD)([s](https://iiw.idcommons.net/BBS%2B_JSON-LD_ZKPs_and_Aries_%26_Indy._Your_Thoughts%3F))(there were [three](https://iiw.idcommons.net/ZKPs_for_JSON-LD_using_BBS%2B_-_Round_2), not counting the ZKP [crash course](https://iiw.idcommons.net/Come_teach_a_student_how_ZKP%27s_work_technically._Anybody_else_who_wants_to_know,_please_come,_and_someone_come_teach_us!))
            *   COVID talks and what could [go wrong](https://iiw.idcommons.net/COVID_APPS:_WHAT_COULD_POSSIBLY_GO_WRONG%3F)?
        *   The next IIW is October 27-29  
    *   Conferences 
        *   [Identiverse](https://portal.inxpo.com/ID/PingIdentity/IdentiverseVirtual/?utm_source=REGISTER&utm_medium=Email&utm_campaign=REGISTRER%20TODAY%20EMAIL) starts June 15th, goes over many weeks 
        *   [GS1 Connect](https://gs1connect.gs1us.org/)
    *   Regulatory or policy changes in our space?
        *    Possible legislation emerging in California re: COVID 19 credentials 
            *   EFF opposes
            *   Recommended to read responses [here ](# https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Jun/0051.html)
    *   Other cool resources 
        *   Recorded presentation: [Explaining SSI to C-Suite Executives](https://www.youtube.com/watch?reload=9&v=GRfnie-5z4c&t=20s)
        *   Recorded Presentation: [Essential Services Delivery PoC](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jmq5SZ3R8ccul6Dqnup5iVXlFZVdPm56/view?usp=drivesdk)
*   Project sharing/ demos (5-10 minute slots, share what you are working on/thinking about, discuss reactions and questions
    *   Slot 2: Michael Boyd (Trinsic ID) [SSI Cloud Platform](https://studio.trinsic.id)
        *   Note re-branding ([details](https://trinsic.id/streetcred-id-rebrands-to-trinsic-raises-pre-seed-funding/)) 
    *   Slot 3: Margo Johnson (Transmute)[ Universal Wallet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13CU7du7m4BaHasFJJQuSYG0mk7BT51V3n7RAa100UZU/edit#) 
    *   Slot 4: Juan Caballero (Spherity) What happened to the rubrics? Show-n-tell of Carsten’s variant, possible work item for this group?
        *   Juan will condense and share 

Notes:



*   Meet every two months … with co-chair we will try monthly! 
*   Talk about co-chairing on the mailing list as well
    *   Michael Boyd interested
    *   Ask if others want to contribute
*   Desire for more user experience conversations 
    *   Checking on status of Sovrin DID UX efforts 


### April 15th 2020 9 am PST/6pm CET - No Recording? 



*   Intros / reconnect 
    *   Where are you calling in from? 
    *   What brings you to the call? 
    *   What are you working on/ thinking about these days? 
    *   Any other topics/ ideas you want to add to discussion? 
*   New/ developing use cases 
    *   Anyone is working on some projects related to COVID-19? Would you like to share?
        *   Aries group call: [https://zoom.us/j/900111661](https://zoom.us/j/900111661) 
        *   Adrian Groper’s work:  [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jv9ATXvP-sU&feature=youtu.be](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jv9ATXvP-sU&feature=youtu.be) 
        *   OpenMined (ML)
        *   Transmute post: [https://medium.com/transmute-techtalk/covid-immunity-badges-dd9b8a05fa86](https://medium.com/transmute-techtalk/covid-immunity-badges-dd9b8a05fa86) 
*   Interesting topics for IIW 
    *   Glossary experiment
    *   Juan link: [https://internetidentityworkshop.com/schedule/](https://internetidentityworkshop.com/schedule/) 
    *   Interoperability 
    *   Regulatory space
*   Future gathering of this group
    *   Monthly cadence following IIW
    *   Product group email directory is here: [https://dif.groups.io/g/id-productmanagers/directory](https://dif.groups.io/g/id-productmanagers/directory) 



---


Product Group Invitation & Talking Points (Draft)



*   Current groups.io description: “An open discussion group hosted under DIF for Identity professionals to discuss and evolve decentralized Identity product-related work.” 
*   Updated description:
    *   The DIF Product community group is an open discussion space for anyone interested in connecting the dots between real-world needs and the technology discussed in other DIF groups. Recurring topics include user experience, design patterns, terminology, business value, and cross-company interoperability. 
    *   Group members can join monthly calls with the following format:
        *   **Ecosystem update **(10 min) - Keep tabs on DIF related standards progress, conferences, legal/regulatory, and helpful resources
        *   **Topic discussion** (20min) - Discuss a community driven topic that relates to the shared challenges of building and distributing decentralized identity products.
        *   **Product demos** (20-30 min)- Ranging from polished app demos to early ideation, group members can share a 5 minute demo and get detailed feedback from the group
    *   Members can also initiate asynchronous discussions in the groups.io chat to solicit feedback or organize around work items. 

**Potential Topic Ideas:**



*   How do we express <span style="text-decoration:underline;">cryptographic trust i</span>n a user experience? 
*   How do we drive decentralized identity adoption with current web infrastructure in a modular approach? 
*   How will digital identity wallets look in 5 years for individuals? for organizations?
